In May 2007, polarimetric near-infrared (NIR) measurements indicated a flare event with the highest contrast of sub-flares recorded to date. According to the relativistic disc model, these measurements provide clear evidence of both spot expansion and shearing caused by differential rotation. A 30% expansion would significantly reduce the Synchrotron-Self-Compton (SSC) X-ray flux. Thus, this scenario could explain the flare from July 2004 and possibly the flare on July 17, 2006, reported by Hornstein et al. (2007). During these events, a strong NIR/X-ray flare was followed by a weaker NIR flare without any X-ray activity. In conclusion, a temporary accretion disc paired with a short jet can account for most characteristics linked to the infrared/X-ray light curves of SgrA*. The close relationship between NIR and X-ray flares can be understood by merging relativistic amplification curves with a straightforward SSC mechanism, allowing for a fundamental interpretation within a time-dependent flare emission model. We utilize a synchrotron model with an optically thin spectral index ranging from 0.4 to 1.3, and relativistic electrons with a boosting factor of approximately 10^3. The flux densities of the source components are represented by a power spectrum with a spectral index close to -1. This multi-component model also explains the potential quasi-periodic sub-flare structures at infrared wavelengths, indicating that with sufficient sensitivity and time resolution, they should also be detectable in the X-ray range. Additionally, simultaneous radio/sub-mm data alongside NIR K- and L-band measurements, combined with X-ray observations, should yield light curves that can validate the proposed model and differentiate between higher and lower energy flare events. Chandra's high angular resolution is particularly well-suited for distinguishing the thermal non-variable bremsstrahlung from the non-thermal variable component of the SgrA* X-ray flux density during weak flares.