Afterglows of Elusive Short Gamma-Ray Bursts

For the first time, an international group of astronomers has observed visible light from a short gamma-ray burst (GRB). Using the 1.5-meter Danish telescope at La Silla, they demonstrated that these brief, intense bursts of gamma-ray radiation likely come from the violent collision of two merging neutron stars. This team also employed the Very Large Telescope (VLT) to accurately locate the birthplace of the first short burst whose position was precisely identified. Their findings were published in the October 6 issue of the journal Nature. Gamma-ray bursts, the most powerful type of explosion known in the Universe, have puzzled scientists for thirty years. They are categorized into two types: long and short. Recent international research has shown that long gamma-ray bursts (lasting more than about 2 seconds) are associated with the explosions of massive stars. Short-duration GRBs are thought to be caused by merging neutron stars; however, they have remained undetected in optical light for over 30 years. On the night of July 9 to 10, 2005, the NASA HETE-2 satellite recorded a burst lasting only 70 milliseconds and, through X-ray detection, pinpointed its location in the sky. Thirty-three hours later, Jens Hjorth and his team captured images of this area using the Danish 1.5-meter telescope at ESO La Silla. The images revealed a fading source located on the edge of a galaxy. The burst is 11,000 light-years from the center of a star-forming dwarf galaxy about 2.4 billion light-years away and is relatively young, approximately 400 million years old. Observations made up to 20 days after the burst ruled out the possibility of an energetic hypernova, which is common in long GRBs. This supports the idea that short GRBs are caused by the merging of two very compact stars.

The first visible image of a short gamma-ray burst was taken with the Danish 1.5-meter telescope and the DFOSC camera at La Silla on July 11, 2005. It shows the gamma-ray burst located on the edge of a low-redshift galaxy.